Our Project Management team at our Test Division in Woodbridge, Ontario is currently looking for a bright, ambitious Project Manager who enjoys team work and on-going challenging projects.

        MAJOR DUTIES:

Project planning, control, and leadership of assigned projects in the development and implementation of Automated Test and Information Systems.Each implementation specific to the customer and project requirements.

Accountable for all aspects of projects including; customer satisfaction, delivery, performance to schedule, performance to budget.

Will be the main point of contact between ATS Test Systems and our Customers.

Will co-ordinate the interaction between departments to ensure the equipment proceeds on time and on budget.

SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES:

Ensure that the order received from the Customer is compatible with the terms of specifications in the proposal.

Conduct a project “Kick-Off” meeting with the Project Team.

Follow in-house guidelines and standards to direct the daily project activities and co-ordinate the work of the members of the Project Team, through Department Managers and Supervisors, to ensure that goals and objectives are accomplished in accordance with established priorities.

Co-ordinate the concurrent development of design and build activities.

Co-ordinate getting Long Lead Item requisitions to purchasing and follow-up to ensure material arrival meets schedule requirements.

Plan and monitor/control the project from the receipt of the order through installation at the Customer’s site.

Track all contract changes with a written Change Order Request and maintain a revision summary with respect to contract scope, schedule and “cost” as well as “sell” value of project.

Conduct regular project meetings with both in-house personnel and with the Customer and record and distribute the minutes for these meetings in the prescribed form.

Acts as primary Customer contact for design, costing, scope and function related issues.

Develop project schedules including phases and milestones, track schedules and initiate corrective action through the Department Managers and Supervisors.

Review the project schedule and budget with the Project Team and discuss the tasks and preliminary hours budgets.

Monitor progress of the project during design, build and installation by reviewing the performance of the team members against the project schedule.Resolve conflicts through the Department Managers and Supervisors.

Responsible for getting machine acceptance both at ATS Test Systems facilities and the final Customer location.

Responsible for buy-off of major purchased equipment.

Inform ATS Test Systems management of cost of labour overruns and formulate actions to keep project on time and on budget.

Ensure a written record of all Customer communications is available for the project file using the templates that are resident in the Project Management computer directory.Use the E-mail system whenever possible including documents forwarded for travel plans and shipping. Project files will be organized in binders with dividers and kept in the PM’s office within easy reach of project engineering staff.

Instruct all vendors as to conduct while at ATS Test Systems; including observing all safety rules.

Ensure sub-contractors provide written documentation of liability insurance coverage.

Ensure that all documentation for the job is shipped to the Customer as required.

Responsible for completion of a project review after final acceptance of project.

If assigned is an active member of the Management Steering Committee and works towards companywide continual Improvement goals.

Assist and co-operate with the Joint Health and Safety Committee and its representatives in the carrying out of their functions.

Ensure that all personnel, over whom they have responsibility, comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act, and its Regulations and the ATS Health and Safety Program.

Ensure that all persons having authority over workers, acquaint those workers with any hazards in the work, handling, storage, use, disposal, and transport of any article, device, equipment, or biological, chemical, or physical agent. Responsible for ensuring a Build safety risk assessment is completed and agreed to by team members.

Ensures that all business activities are performed with the highest ethical standards and in compliance with the ATS code of business conduct.

Assist Application Engineers with pre-order Customer visits and contribute to the proposal preparation as required.

QUALIFICATIONS:

Education:

Post- secondary College Diploma, Engineering degree or equivalent experience, specializing in Electronics, Electrical, Mechanical or Controls Engineering.  Additional management level training or equivalent experience would also be an asset. PMI Certification is an asset.

Experience:

Minimum of three years’ experience working with multi-disciplined project teams, preferably in an automation or systems integration environment. Must have a practical working knowledge of, PLC’s, instrumentation or other machine controls packages, sensors and pneumatics.Preference will be given to those who possess an excellent manufacturing or process engineering background, a superior mechanical aptitude and proven trouble-shooting skills.

An ability to work effectively with Customers according to deadlines and under pressure-filled conditions is essential.

Demonstrated ability to lead others and to complete related management tasks on time.A total commitment to the success of the assigned project and to ATS Automation Tooling Systems.

